# Logan Burkham ePortfolio
###### [Portfolio Home](./README.md) | [Code Review](./code_review.md) | [Narratives & Enhancements](./narratives_and_enhancements_lander.md) | [Contact](./contact_me.md)

## Enhancement Three (Databases)

I feel that modifying the ACU EBSCO user logging script in regard to database processes was the most significant change I made to this script. This is evident to me since this change alone accounted for the modifications made to the database interactivity of the script as well as modified the algorithms and data structures within the script. To improve the database operation time and efficiency I implemented the industry standard SQLAlchemy connector. This toolkit allowed for more seamless integration with the ERP database. With the introduction of the SQLAlchemy connector, I was able to remove some of the redundancy in the codebase. Specifically, running commit and close statements was no longer needed as SQLAlchemy’s execute method specifies a commit message concurrently. In addition to this, a single connection can be maintained throughout the codebase needing only to be closed at the end of the script. These improvements allow for better code execution with more ‘clean’ points of failure. That is to say, if a database write fails for any reason, the connector will not write the code to the table even temporarily which keeps temporary databases data traffic minimal. This provides the burden of responsibility on the application rather than on the databases. Should data be held temporarily, the SQLAlchemy toolkit will not commit any part of the session rather than relying on the database to clean the temporary table once the session connection is severed. While a small change, this burden allows for more secure coding as well as less processing demand across all of the systems involved in the execution of this script. In addition to the security enhancement of this upgrade, SQLAlchemy is the industry-standard SQL connector for Python currently. This allows for collaborative work, even in solitary development settings, due to the broad-reaching adoption of the toolkit. It is likely that any user familiar with Python database connection would understand SQLAlchemy (it is even likely they would have had some previous experience with it.) As such, this toolkit has allowed this script to become more future proof thus increasing its longevity. These changes together help to showcase my improvement as a career developer and provide tangible evidence of my achievements with regard to the course outcomes.

I intended to meet many course outcomes with this particular upgrade. These include:
- Design and evaluate computing solutions that solve a given problem using algorithmic principles and computer science practices and standards appropriate to its solution, while managing the trade-offs involved in design choices (data structures and algorithms)
- Demonstrate an ability to use well-founded and innovative techniques, skills, and tools in computing practices for the purpose of implementing computer solutions that deliver value and accomplish industry-specific goals (software engineering/design/database)
- Develop a security mindset that anticipates adversarial exploits in software architecture and designs to expose potential vulnerabilities, mitigate design flaws, and ensure privacy and enhanced security of data and resources
While all of these course outcomes were met, the over arching changes to this script have also met the remaining outcomes. Implementing the SQLAlchemy connector helped make the code more readable and brought in the industry-standard toolkit which allows for a wider audience of collaborators since custom implementation is not needed and familiarity is likely already the case for those collaborators. Additionally, Updating the README as well improving the in-line comments allows for the appropriate stakeholders/product managers to understand why such design decisions were made.
	
As was the case previously, updating this script has allowed me to appreciate the changes I have made as a career developer. Modifying this artifact’s database connector brought some depth of knowledge around both the cx_Oracle connector that was previously used and the SQLAlchemy toolkit in production now. I was actually able to see the value of each connector while making this enhancement. Upon working through this implementation, I realized that there may be situations in which the cx_Oracle connector may be better suited (a sentiment that, at the beginning of this project, I would have dismissed as laughable.) However, having skills in multiple avenues of database interaction may be the biggest takeaway from this enhancement. Practice in the field of development is the only way to determine what works best in situations without depending on the reference of a forum user or co-worker. Gaining experience with both of these connectors allows me to act as a source of information for myself and others which in turn makes me a better developer overall.

The code base for this enhancement can be [viewed here](./enhancement_three.md) and [downloaded here](./ebsco_access_logs_SNHU_Module_5/main.py)
