# Logan Burkham ePortfolio 
###### [Portfolio Home](./README.md) | [Code Review](./code_review.md) | [Narratives & Enhancements](./narratives_and_enhancements_lander.md) | [Contact](./contact_me.md)
#### [Portfolio Home](./README.md) > [Enhancement Two Narrative](./enhancement_narrative_two.md)

## Enhancement Two (Algorithms and Data Structures)

The artifact that I am refining for the Algorithms and Data Structure category of the course outcome is a logging script that I wrote for Abilene Christian University to gather user access logs from the Azure AD SSO integration of the Ebsco Library Online software. This script is used to gather these logs and quantify data within the university ERP database. This script was written in 2021 to meet the reporting needs of the ACU Library for the multi-campus institutional user base.

This artifact is actually inclusive of all of the components of the intended course outcomes. I feel that it demonstrates a piece of software that can be improved to showcase the improvements that I have made as a software developer since writing it nearly a year ago, as well as showcases the amount of thought that was put into the project at its inception. Specifically, the use of the imported modules to make the creation and manipulation of the data that is accessed from the ERP database to be reported on showcases my initial abilities in software development. This artifact has been improved, with regards to algorithms and data structures, in a rather roundabout way. To better process the data import and writing/rewriting of data to the Oracle database running the Banner ERP, I implemented the industry standard SQLAlchemy connector. This toolkit allowed for more seamless integration with the ERP database. With the introduction of the SQLAlchemy connector, I was able to remove some of the redundancy in the codebase. Specifically, running commit and close statements (since those commands are run simultaneous to concurrent processes using SQLAlchemy.) Since the SQLAlchemy toolkit runs these commands concurrently, the Algorithms used to write and modify the data being exported can be rewritten to take advantage of this functionality. Namely, this helps to make the algorithms smaller (reducing the time and space they utilize) and helps them to be more readable. This also reduces the likelihood of a database write failing due to an interrupted commit message. These reductions, again, help to make the algorithms run more efficiently and help to reduce the likelihood of failure since the processing is less intensive. (This is of course theoretical for a project of this size but, should this type of processing be scaled up, setting this foundation at the early stages of the project would help to mitigate any potential frustrations later on.)

I intended to meet many course outcomes with this particular upgrade. Namely,
- Design and evaluate computing solutions that solve a given problem using algorithmic principles and computer science practices and standards
appropriate to its solution, while managing the trade-offs involved in design choices (data structures and algorithms)
- Demonstrate an ability to use well-founded and innovative techniques, skills, and tools in computing practices for the purpose of implementing
computer solutions that deliver value and accomplish industry-specific goals (software engineering/design/database)
- Develop a security mindset that anticipates adversarial exploits in software architecture and designs to expose potential vulnerabilities, mitigate design
flaws, and ensure privacy and enhanced security of data and resources

I strove to complete these upgrades with these course outcomes in mind because this particular script is utilized in a real-world production enterprise system. Something that I have learned throughout the continued development of this script (as well as others similar to it) is that as a career developer, the ability to create code that meets these three foundational elements (security, innovation, collaborative design) can be very tricky. This particular upgrade, although small in implementation, provides a basis for all three of these elements. Not only is SQLAlchemy an industry-standard in python development, but it is also widely used (so it would be familiar to or easy to learn for any new developers that would pick it up at a later time.) Not only this, but any security vulnerabilities that could exploit this toolkit would be able to be resolved relatively quickly due to the wide adoption of this toolkit. Should it become known that this toolkit is vulnerable to some exploit, the community of users utilizing the SQLAlchemy toolkit can all work together to work to patch the vulnerability. This type of collaborative work happens frequently enough that utilizing industry-standard products can actually help to mitigate risk (even though, in theory, more users would make for a bigger target for any black hat actors.) 

Enhancing this project has been quite interesting for me. It has been eye-opening to see how far I have come as a career developer since writing this script initially. Participating in a dispersed campus environment can make it difficult to have any measuring stick in which to judge my progress as a developer. Additionally, I am not a traditional student, to begin with. I am 29 years old, I have two kids and a third on the way. I am a full-time husband, father, student, and employee. Measuring against any of my ‘peers’ has always made me feel quite behind the traditional timeline. Revisiting this project has helped to ease my frustrations with the decisions my younger self made if only a bit. I think that often developers find themselves in this place of feeling technically inadequate. I’m not sure that I have an answer to that but, revisiting this project has allowed me to judge my progress against my own self and that has been uplifting for me.

The code base for this enhancement can be [viewed here](./enhancement_two.md) and [downloaded here](./ebsco_access_logs_SNHU_Module_4/main.py)
